Today I will teach you about Spring Boot and its benefits,
calling out specifics such as,
what is Spring Boot, why was it created, differences between
Spring and Spring Boot and Spring Boot starters?
I will also introduce the CLI, automatic configuration, and the actuator.
Spring Boot is a game changer for the Spring framework,
and its popularity is increasing.
Spring Boot sits on top of the Spring framework and
makes it super easy to set up, configure, and run simple web applications.
Spring Boot allows you to boot up your Spring applications, no pun intended,
with minimal fuss in very little Spring configuration.
If you've used Spring before,
you're familiar with the XML schema‑based configuration files.
Although Spring is a lightweight development framework,
especially when you compare it to EJBs, Enterprise JavaBeans, there were a
lot of complaints about the amount of configuration needed. In later
versions of Spring, annotation‑based configuration was introduced to
reduce the dependency on XML configuration.
Although this helped, it didn't entirely solve the problem.
There's also another problem.
When developing a web application, for example,
the structure is pretty much the same with similar dependencies.
For example, you'll have configuration, a controller,
a service layer, connection to a database, and a servlet
container such as Tomcat to deploy the application to. All of
this is repetitive and boilerplate.
Spring Boot solves this problem, assists with
configuration, and helps with dependency management.
Spring Boot emphasizes convention over configuration and is smart enough to
choose your dependencies for you, and auto configures what you need so that
you can literally launch your application with a single click. Spring Boot
also simplifies the deployment of your application and comes with several
built‑in servlet containers and embeds directly with no need to deploy WAR
files separately.
You no longer need to download,
install, and configure web servers, or package your application. What a time saver.